Good design balances form, functionality, and aesthetics in a way that makes the work put into it invisible. A beautifully crafted object can be useless if it doesn’t perform its function; likewise, something mundane as a stapler can be aesthetically pleasing. It’s a balance that the best designers make seem effortless.

To learn a little about the thought that goes into designing everyday products, we spoke with Jeff Miller. Jeff currently works for Poppin, a company designing pleasingly modern office and work supplies. He’s previously worked with some of the biggest names that come to mind when you think of well-designed products, including Herman Miller, Bosch, and more.

Tell us a little about who you are, your current position, and how long you’ve been at it.

I’m Jeff Miller, Vice President of Design at Poppin—a one-stop shop for workstyle. For more than four years I’ve been responsible for heading the design of all the products we make; from pens and notebooks to desk accessories and furniture. Prior to joining Poppin, I headed my own design practice combining a research-driven consulting background, with a more personal elemental approach for a range of clients in the areas of consumer electronics, furniture and interior design including: Bosch, Cuisinart, Herman Miller, Panasonic and Samsung. Concurrently, I was the Creative Director of Itoki Design, a New York-based subsidiary of one of Japan’s largest office furniture manufacturers. Years prior, I was the long-time member and Vice President of Design at ECCO Design, in New York, where for more than a decade I was involved in product development for global brands including: Apple, Colgate, Corning, LG, Motorola, OXO and Procter & Gamble. 

What drove you to choose your career path?

From an early age I was art tracked, gifted at drawing and sculpting but without ambition to create art for its own sake. I knew I wanted to make things, and that left architecture as a realistic professional pursuit, but the scale and scope of developing buildings didn’t appeal to me. I was more interested in the way flip-top plastic shampoo bottles worked, considering why the underside of a telephone couldn’t be as beautiful as the top, endlessly reconfiguring bicycle components into new kinetic creations, and, of course, furniture. So it’s what I always wanted to do, but didn’t know it was a job until I found a book about famed industrial designer, Raymond Loewy in my high school library. (No internet back then.)

source: http://lifehacker.com/career-spotlight-what-i-do-as-a-product-designer-1728031135?disableinsets=on&utm_expid=66866090-49.VYy4WCNHSyuP6EmjnM93MQ.2